## Object and Class

Class is a blueprint to create an object. 

Every object in C# inherits from the System.Object and has this 4 methods:
- ToString
- Equals
- GetHashCode
- GetType

Object is an instance of a class.

## Declaration vs Initialization

Declaration only reserves the block of memory, without the value stored in it.  
Initialization stores the value in the memory block.

## var

Keyword **var** is used to avoid specifying the type that can be predicted during the compile time.

## namespace

The namespace keyword is used to declare a scope that contains a set of related objects.  
Namespaces are used in C# to provide a separation of codes. 

Since c# 10, we can declare the file scoped namespaces.

## Comments

There are two types of comments in C#:
- Line comment: the one preceded by two slashes "//", which comments the line, starting from these slashes.
- Block comment, which start from "/\*" and ends with "\*/". 

There are also XML tags, which are commonly considered as a comment, but they are not. They are tags used for documentation purposes.
They start from three slashes "///" and contain XML tags: "\<summary\>", "\<param\>", "\<returns\>", "\<exception\>" and other.
There are also attributes like "cref" attached to tags. 

I also do not classify the "TODO's" as comments.

## this 

Keyword **this** is used in a class definition to point to the current instance of this class.

We can use **this** keyword to create an extension methods .

We can use **this** keyword to define the an indexer:
```csharp
public int this[int index]
{
	get
	{
		return )list[index];
	}
	set
	{
		_list[index] = value;
	}
}
```

## Tuple

Tuple allows as to group variables. It is widely used as a method return type to return multiple variables.
Before tuples, methods use the **out** keyword to obtain such functionality.

## Method signature

Method signature consists of:
- access modified (optional)
- return type (it is a part of method signature for delegates, but not in case of method overloading)
- method name
- list of parameters

## Lambda expression and lambda statement

*Lambda expression* is an anonymous function and it can be converted to delegated type:
> (input-parameters) => expression

*Lambda statement* is similar to lambda expression, except that its statements are in a braces:
> (input-parameters) => { \<sequence-of-statements\> }

Starting from C# 9 we can use discards to specify parameters that are not used in the expression:
> Func\<int, int, int\> constant = (_, _) => 42;

We can also create an async lambdas.

## Anonymous type

Anonymous types are instances without defined class (class is created in the background). They are useful for developers
to create fast objects. They are used in ASP.NET commonly. Anonymous types are created using **var** keyword.

> var anonimType = new { Id = 1, Name = "Marek" };

We can also use it in LINQ methods:
> var studentFullName = students.Select(student => new { Name = $"{student.FirstName} {student.LastName}"});

## Signs '@' and '$'

Sign '$' is used to create interpolated strings.

Sign '@' has two functionalities:
- create a string literal (string for which there are no escape characters) 
> @"C:\folder\test.txt";
- we can precede the name of the variable that is a keyword in C#
> var @params = 123;