## .NET 

.NET stands for "Network Enabled Technologies". It is a framework, created by the Microsoft in late 2001 (beta version of .NET 1.0). It contains a collection of libraries and the Common Language Runtime (CLR). 

Example libraries of .NET:
- System.Collection
- System.Xml
- System.Console

CLR helps to run the .NET application and provides features like: 
- Garbage Collector
- Exception Handling 
- Thread Handling

.NET is a used by many languages like: 
- C#
- F#
- VB.NET
- C++/CLI (C++ for .NET)
- J#.NET (Java for .NET) 

In the end, they are all converted into the Intermediate Language (IL).

## C# 

C# is the programming language, created by the Microsoft in 2000, as a next evolution of a C language family. 
'#' was used, because in music terminology it defines a chromatic mark which increases the tone. 

C# is strongly typed and objected-oriented in contrast to C language, which is a procedural language. 
C# code is a managed code, which means that it is executed under the Common Language Runtime environment in contrast to C.
C# code is translated into the Intermediate Language by the JIT compiler (Just-in-time compiler), invoked by CLR.

## .NET Framework vs .NET Core

.NET Framework is an old framework, released in early 2002 and it can run only on Windows.
Performance of .NET Framework is lower than .NET Core because of big components/libraries (big .dll files)
	In order to verify this fact, we can create the .NET Framework Console Application and check "References". 
	We would find "System.Data" in which we have Entity Framework.
	However, if we create a .NET Core (or .NET 5.0+) Console Application and check "References" we will find smaller NuGet Packages like:
	"System.Collections.Generic" so just a part of bigger "System.Collection" .dll.
	To sum up .NET Core has better performance because of small, specialized .dll's that load only what we need.

.NET Framework is more IDE (Integrated Development Environment) based, while .NET Core is cross platform - we can use it on Mac, Linux, Windows.

.NET Core was released in 2016. It supports CLI commands. Therefore, we can use for instance "dotnet build" to build the application. 
It is important, because it helps us to automatize processes and to containerize the app, for instance using docker.

.NET Core supports microservices and clouds. Moreover, with .NET Standard its compatible with Xamarin.

.NET Framework was not a free framework (we had to pay for it), but .NET Core is free: 
Microsoft changed the basis of their foundation and switch to clouds, providing free .NET and aiming to make it a very popular framework.

## .NET 5.0 and .NET 6.0

.NET 5.0 is generally the unification of .NET Framework and .NET Core. Moreover, it unifies Mono and other .NET runtimes like .NET Compact, additionally providing some new features.
.NET 5.0 is short-term-support. Therefore, many companies have waited for .NET 6.0 which is long-term-support.
.NET 5.0 was introduced because Microsoft decided to make .NET free, popular and at last unified.

## .NET 6.0 features:

- File scoped namespaces
- Global usings
- Implicit usings
- Interpolated const strings (and improved string interpolation by the use of DefaultStringInterpolationHandler)
- Upgrades for deconstructions:
	- We can now partially define and initialize variables in the deconstructor:
		- "int a = 0; (a, int b) = point;" instead of "(int a, int b) = point" or "int a = 0, int b = 0; (a, b) = point"

- Upgrades for lambda expressions
	- We can do: "var parse = (string s) => int.Parse(s);" instead of "Func<string, int> parse2 = s => int.Parse(s);"
	- We can also explicitly show what is a return type "var result = object (bool b) => b ? 1 : "0";"
		- It is important if the return type is not straightforward.
	- We can set attributes for lambdas: "var someLambda = [Obsolete] (string s) => parse(s);"

- Property patterns (nested using '.') 
	- "if(customer is { FirstName: "Marek", Address.City: "London" })"

- Improvements for structs 
	- The empty constructor for default values is available
	- Nondestructive mutation was introduced: cloning struct using **with** keyword to other structs:
		- "var money = new Money() { Value = 10, Currency = "$" }; var money2 = money with { Value = 20 };"

- An improvement for anonymous types
	- cloning anonymous objects using **with** keyword to other objects:
		- "var someValue = new { Value = 10, Name = "test" }; var someValue2 = someValue with { Value = 20 };"

- Changes for records
	- Struct records where introduced (we can also use "record class" to explicitly show that this is a class record)
	- We can seal the ToString method, to override it for all derived classes (children can not override it anymore it sealed):

public record class BaseRecord(string BaseValue)
{
	public sealed override string ToString()
	{
		return "Base implementation";
	}
}

public record class DerivedRecord(string Value, string BaseValue) : BaseRecord(BaseValue)
{
	//can not override the "ToString" method
}

var someValue = new DerivedRecord("a", "b");
Console.WriteLine(someValue); //output "Base implementation"

#### C# 11 previous

- Generic attributes
- static abstract methods in interfaces (to be able to override the operator, for instance '+' operator)
- raw strings
- INumber interface
 
