# Memory types in .NET

**Stack** and **heap** are parts of RAM memory. Heap memory is divided into many heap memories, but in the end only few of them are important to know.

## Stack

On **stack** the value types are allocated (for instance: int, bool, double, char) and also the pointers to parts of **heap** memory.
It is important to notice that both **variable** (pointer) and the **value** of value type are stored in the same place (in the same layer of stack).
For instance: "i = 10; b = true;" makes two layers of stack. 

The stack is made of layers, one on another (LIFO: first-in last-out structure). 
This structure results in a very good performance, but it would not handle well the large amounts of data (it is limited from above, so it is static).
Therefore, the stack memory is used to allocate small chunks of data. 

Pointers are by default allocated in a stack.
Structures are value types, so they are allocated in the stack.

Let us notice, that method primitive parameters are stored in the stack.

The famous "stack overflow exception" is a result of allocating to much data in the stack memory.

## Heap

In **heap** the reference types values are allocated but their variables (pointers) are allocated in the **stack**. 
For instance: "Customer customer = new Customer()" results in pointer "customer" allocated in the **stack**, but its value will be stored in the **heap**.

Nevertheless, value types that are associated with the reference types are stored in the **heap**, not in the **stack**.

## Value and Reference types

Value types are types that are stored in the stack or in a heap. 
They inherit from System.Value.
For instance, "int" or "struct" (like DateTime or GUID) is a value type.

Reference types are types which values that are allocated in the **heap**, but their pointers (variables) are allocated in the **stack**. 
They inherit from System.Object or System.String.
For instance, string or object is a reference type. 

## Boxing and unboxing

Boxing happens when the value type is cast to the reference type. This is also true for interfaces that are implemented to the value types.
Boxing is done by **implicit** casting.
The consequence of boxing is lowering the performance of the application.

> int i = 10;  
> object y = i;  

Unboxing happens when the reference type is cast back to the value type (if possible).
Unboxing is done by **explicit** casting.

> z = (int)y;

## Explicit casting and implicit casting

Casting happens when we assign variable of one datatype to other datatype.

If casting is done automatically, it is called "implicit casting". 
> int i = 10;  
> double d = i;  

If not, it is called "explicit casting".
> double x = 10.5;  
> int y = (int)x;  

Explicit casting can result in the **loss** of data. Therefore, the additional caution is required.

## Memory leak

Memory leak refers to the situation in which we loose the reference to the memory we have not cleared. As a consequence the object is an "Isolated Island". 
Such memory leaks in C# are handled by Garbage Collector.

It also refers to the situation, in which the memory is being allocated and not released, because it is wrongly considered as important.
In C# it can happen when we do not dispose the connections to the file or a database.  
In C# we use the "using" statement to automatically dispose the resources when they are not needed anymore.

## Different heap's

When a .NET application runs, two sections of heap memory should be pointed out:

- The Small Object Heap (SOH): 
    - Stores allocated objects that are less than 85KB.
- The Large Object Heap (LOH): 
    - Stores allocated objects greater than 85KB (there are exceptions). It is Generation 2 for GC.

User code can only be allocated in the generation 0 (Small Object Heap) or straight to the generation 2 (Large Object Heap). 
Only the GC can allocate objects to the generation 1 (by promoting survivors from generation 0).
GC can also allocate objects in the generation 2 (by promoting survivors from generation 1).

There are other types of heap memory:
- The Code Heap: 
    - Stores the actual machine code, so code after the JIT (Just-in-time).
- Pinned Object Heap (POH): 
    - Added in .NET 5: 
    - Pinning has its own costs, because it introduces fragmentation (and in general complicates object compaction a lot)
    - So, in the end, it would be perfect just to get rid of pinned objects and move them to a different place than SOH/LOH
    - This separate place would be simply ignored, by the GC design, when considering heap compaction so we will get pinning behavior out of the box.
- Process Heap: unmanaged allocations, native memory, etc.
- Loader Heap: contains CLR structures and the type system
- GC Heap: user allocated heap memory, private to the app
- JIT Code Heap: memory allocated by mscoreee (Execution Engine) and the JIT compiler for managed code
- High Frequency Heap: statics, MethodTables, FieldDescs, interface map
- Low Frequency Heap: EEClass, ClassLoader and lookup tables
- Stub Heap: stubs for CAS, COM wrappers, P/Invoke