## Authentication

Confirming that the subject is what he says he is. So it is confirming the identity of a subject.

Usually, authentication is present when we log into the server, using a login and a password.

## Authorization

Authorization is a process of determining the subject permissions. So it is determining if the subject should be able to reach a certain resource.

In web applications, we usually do this by user roles, claims, requirements, that determines what actions are allowed for a certain user.

Each resource can have a different level of permission level.

## JSON Web Token (jwt)

Json web token is the token that contains three parts: 
- Header
- Payload
- Signature

Each part is separated by dot.

Example jwt token:
```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJodHRwOi8vc2NoZW1hcy54bWxzb2FwLm9yZy93cy8yMDA1LzA1L2lkZW50aXR5L2NsYWltcy9uYW1laWRlbnRpZmllciI6IjI0NjA0ZWQ2LTEyODEtNGQ4Yi04NWJjLWJkNzdlNGY0ODdkMiIsIm5hbWUiOiJNYXJlayIsImVtYWlsIjoibWFyZWsxMjNAZ21haWwuY29tIiwiUGVyc29uSWQiOiIiLCJleHAiOjE2NzgwMzExMTEsImlzcyI6IlNob3B3YXkiLCJhdWQiOiJTaG9wd2F5In0.-_tIWekkKl9wvqzM1lfHK45kSetzQ-zPevrxxV1fK8w
```

Jwt should not contain secrets, but the information about what user can do. Token is usually generated when log to the server.

Header: contains the type of token and the algorithm used to generate the signature.

Payload contains the data in the token, so informations what the user can do, using **claims**. 
Some of claims can be standardized claims, but some can be custom ones.

Signature: provides authentication (after the comparison of signature provided by the user and one generated by the server).
Signature is created using encoded header, encoded payload and the secret. 

