### Why OOP?

It helps us to think in terms of real life objects. 
Therefore, it improves the process of design the application.

### Class and Object

A class is a blueprint and a object is an instance of a class.

### Constructor

Constructor is the class member function that is invoked when the instance of a certain class in created. 
Constructor has the same name as class name and does not have any return type.

### Deconstructor

Deconstructor is a method named "Deconstruct" with public access modifier and void return type.

We can have multiple deconstructor in a single class.

All of the Deconstruct parameters must be with **out** keyword.
Deconstructor is used to deconstruct the instance to the tuple (can be done with discards "_").

Records have the deconstructors well designed.

```csharp
public void Deconstruct(out T var1, out T var2, ..., out T varN)
{
    //Code...
}

// Deconstructor assignment
(T var1, ..., T varN) = obj;

// Using discards
var(_, var2, _, var4) = obj;
```

### Finallizer

Finalizer historically refers to "destructor". 
This is a method executed when the instance of a class is being garbage collected.
There can be only one finalizer in the single class.
Finalizer has the same name as class but preceded by tylda "~" or it can be "void Finalize() { //code }".
They cannot have any modifiers of have any parameters.

Finalizers are usually used to perform necessary clean-up.

Finalizers cannot be defined in structs. 
They cannot be inherited or overloaded or called (they are invoked automatically).

### Dispose 

Dispose method is a method that usually is used to free resources that garbage collection is not able to free, like db connection.
If the IDisposable interface is implemented, then after the using statement scope the Dispose method is automatically called.

## Pillars of OOP

- Polymorphism
	- Object acts differently under different conditions. User can be Worker, Manager, Admin
- Abstraction
	- Show only what is necessary. Happens in the design phase.
- Inheritance
	- Derived (Child) class extends the base class, called also the parent class.
- Encapsulation
	- Hide complexity. Happens in the in the execution phase.