## Installation guide for RabbitMq

1. RabbitMq is made using Erlang language. Therefore, we need to install erlang at first:
[Goto] (https://erlang.org/download/otp_versions_tree.html)

2. Set the environment variable ERLANG_HOME point to folder in which we installed erlang
	- System and Security -> System -> Advance system settings -> Environment variables
	- Create a new environment variable called "ERLANG_HOME" with value like "C:\Program Files\Erlang OTP"
	- Verify the environment variable by "echo %ERLANG_HOME%"

3. Install RabbitMq

4. Use rabbitmq-command-prompt

5. Type
> rabbitmq-plugins enable rabbitmq_management

6. Go to: localhost:15672

7. The default rabbitmq password and login is "guest"/"guest"

> We can use Chocolatey or docker image to install it

## TryRabbitMQ

This website allows us to the RabbitMq ideas [tryrabbitmq] (http://tryrabbitmq.com/)

## RabbitMQ

RabbitMQ is a most popular, open-source message broker. It is a tool to govern the data flow between microservices. 

RabbitMQ communication is synchronous: we do not need to wait for the reply.

Terminology:
1. Producer - message sender
2. Consumer - message receiver 
3. Exchange - this is a system that deals with the decision about the message delivery. There can be many exchanges for many scenarios.
4. Queue - this is a system of storing the messages in a way that allows the consumer to consume it when it is possible from the consumer perspective.
5. Connection - any consumer or producer should open a single TCP connection to the RabbitMQ, but a connection can have multiple channels
6. Channel - different channels allows for instance to use different threads to push messages. Different channels results in isolating the messages from different threads.

- Producer always sends the message to the exchange.
- Exchanges push massages into one or more queues. 
- Queues are bind to the exchange. Exchange can be bind to many queues, but queue can be bind to many exchanges (many-to-many relationship). There can be a queue that is not binded to any exchange
- Messages are in a queues until they are used or consumed.
- Consumer may listen to many queues, to single queue or not listen to any queue.
 
We can have multiple producers and consumers for one message broker.

