## Introduction

MongoDb is a database, but the company behind this database is also called MongoDb.

Name is from "Humongous" which means "very large", "gigantic", because it is suppose to store large amount of data.

This is of course a database server, so we can have multiple databases here.

In mongoDb instead of **tables** (in relational databases) we have **Collections**.

Inside **collections** we have **documents**. They are stored in JSON form (to be precise BSON form which is Binary JSON).

MongoDB stores data in BSON format both internally, and over the network, but that doesn’t mean you can’t think of MongoDB as a JSON database. 
Anything you can represent in JSON can be natively stored in MongoDB, and retrieved just as easily in JSON.

It is also schemaless, so we can have different json files there - this gives us flexibility. 

1. Install MongoDb
2. Install Compass
3. Install MongoDb Shell
4. Install MongoDB Command Line Database Tools

To get to the mongosh just type "mongosh" in the prompt

## Drivers

Drivers are bridges between MongoDb server and our programming language. In C# we just need to install NuGet Package
called **MongoDb.Driver**.

Drivers convert BSON to JSON when reading documents and JSON to BSON when inserting documents.

## Storage Engine

Behind the scenes, the MongoDB Server talks to the Storage Engine that is responsible for managing both memory and files
to store or query documents. Reading from memory is fast, while from files is slower.

## Data Types

1. Text 
2. Boolean
3. Number
	a. Integer (int32)
	b. NumberLong (int 64)
	c. NumberDecimal
4. ObjectId (this is a sortable [have timestamp] id like Ulid. Therefore, cursor pagination can be applied just that)
5. ISODate (date type: "2018-09-09")
6. Timestamp (it also has order, so if we insert something in the same timestamp, order will be use to differ them)
7. Embedded Documents
8. Array

There are other special types like Undefined, Regular Expression

db.companies.insertOne({name: "Fresh Apples Inc", isStartup: true, employees: 33, funding: 12345678901234567890, details: {ceo: "Mark Super"}, tags: [ {title: "super"}, {title: "perfect"} ], foundingDate: new Date(), insertedAt: new Timestamp()})

NumberInt creates a int32 value => NumberInt(55)
NumberLong creates a int64 value => NumberLong(7489729384792)
If you just use a number (e.g. insertOne({a: 1}), this will get added as a normal double into the database. 
NumberDecimal creates a high-precision double value => NumberDecimal("12.99") => This can be helpful for cases where you need (many) exact decimal places for calculations.

## Variables 

To make a variable in mongosh we use

> var dsid = db.patients.findOne().diseaseSummary



